---
published: true
title: OKRs: Objectives and Key Results
layout: post
permalink: okrs
---

One of the practices of GitLab that I quite like is the setting of Objectives and Key Results (OKR). You can read about them [here](https://about.gitlab.com/okrs/), but the basic idea is that every quarter we set OKR's that we believe will help us achieve our stated [strategy](https://about.gitlab.com/strategy/). The effect that the OKR's have on my day-to-day work is profound, and I wanted to share.

Every week I hold a Data & Analytics meeting. There is an agenda that goes with the meeting and at the top of the agenda are our OKR's. Currently, these are:

* Replace InsightSquared with Looker
* Real-time dashboard for everything in the Metrics sheet. 100% of metrics.
* Create the data-enabled user journey

These are very clear outcomes, but they don't specify the process to get there. That's for my team and I to decide. Daily, weekly, and monthly, I am trying to align all of our work to achieve these goals. This means that the milestones we set and the issues we open should all be helping achieve the OKRs. For me, it's solved one of the big challenges I had at my previous job - what to work on. Unless otherwise stated, the OKR's are the priority and you should be able to figure out how to prioritize work based on acheiving the OKR.

There is flexibility in the OKR, of course. It's unlikely that everyone will acheive 100% of their OKR and that is expected. 70-80% is a reasonable goal, but the aim is to accomplish it all. It encourages a sense of urgency and enables us to think creatively about how to achieve our goals.

OKR's in general got me thinking about my life outside of GitLab. Within work it's very clear what the priority is and what I should be working on. But outside of work, that's less clear. Within the context of a business, the strategy is often aligned around winning the market: becoming the most used and loved product, earning the most marketshare, and providing value to customers and stakeholders. But success for one's life is different for everybody. It's very personal. And it's hard to quantify as much.

An idea percolating in my head is that one can use a strategy coupled with OKR's to help give one's life some direction. The strategy does not have to be set in stone, and neither do the OKR's. But it's a way to give one's life a sense of direction as well as concrete steps to help achieve the goal. 

One of the reactions I have to this idea is that it's too much planning and organizing for life. Life is supposed to be messy and chaotic and we're humans afterall so shouldn't we just live? Yes, that's true. We're not robots and our lives aren't businesses. But I think a lot of us want to accomplish different goals and dreams in life. To achieve anything you need to make meaningful progress toward some stated goal. Goals in and of themselves don't have to be arduous, competeitive achievements. Your OKR as a retired person could be "Spend 100 hours with my partner working on interesting projects". From there you can it break it down by month (~33 hours per month) and then by week (~4-5 hours per week). And then you can make specific plans on a single day or over multiple days to actually achieve what you want. 

The benefit to clearly stating one's goals like this is that it helps you to orient your efforts. When your goals are nebulous and vague, such as "I want to be less stressed", you're unable to take action on that goal. This idea is nicely encapsulated by the SMART goal acronym. Specific, measurable, actionable, relevant, and time-bound. I've always liked the SMART goal idea, but it can be difficult because specifying the time bounding can be difficult. OKR's solve this nicely because it breaks the year into 4 big chunks and from there you can set more specific goals that help lead to the big goals. 

I'm wondering if this can be done for one's relationships as well. It seems like it should be true that you can set specific goals for your marriage or your parent-child relationship. Many couples want to go on more dates. What if an OKR for you is to go on 6 dates in a quarter. That's 2 every month or one every other week or so. Actionable and specific. I don't think you can have OKR's like "I want my partner to love me more". But I think you _can_ have OKR's that encourage that behavior more. You know that feelings of love are grown and strengthened by shared experience, so set OKR's that make it easy for love to flourish.

The risk to setting OKR's is that it can be disappointing when they're missed. Setting an OKR of losing 25 pounds is reasonable, but it can be upsetting when that goal is not achieved. I do think it's important to have the OKR be the primary outcome and the goals that help achieve the OKR be about process. On a weekly basis, maybe you're trying to lose 1.5 pounds and your first attempt to do that is to eat specific meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and to workout three times per week for 30 minutes. I don't think it makes sense to measure your weight after every meal and workout, obsessing over whether you're going to acheive the OKR. Focus on the process of taking each step and review at the end of the week if progress has been made. If not, adjust and keep moving forward. 

We'll see where this idea goes. It may be overkill for one's personal life, but it's not clear to me what a reasonable alternative actually would be for achieving one's goals. I may take a full GitLab approach and create on my other website an overall strategy with OKR's that help me make progress. Or I may keep them private. I like the idea of having accountability though because they're out in the open. 
